Welcome to the official Saster [music]
Podcast where you can hear some of the
best SAS speakers. This is where the
cloud meets
up today on [music] the Saster Podcast.
I had an engineer say to me just a few
months ago with a ton of pride, mind
you, we have built an incredible SAS
application that makes tons of money,
grows fast, customers never leave it,
FBI has almost 96% gross revenue
retention, 124% net revenue retention.
he has every reason to be prideful of
the application that he's built. And he
said, and the great news is now we get
to sprinkle AI on top.
That is fundamentally incorrect. We all
know in this room that if you are going
to build an AI application today, you
can't simply say, "Hey, we've got all
these APIs. Open AI has APIs. Done.
We'll connect them. We've got an an AI
application." That is not going to cut
it in 2026.
to be AI native actually have to change
the [music] architecture of your system.
It has to flip.
Hey Sasser, [music] imagine having
agents for every support tab. One that
triages tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots [music] churn
risk. That'd be pretty amazing, right?
Happy Fox just made it real with
autopilot. These pre-built AI agents
deploy in about [music] 60 seconds and
run for as low as 2 cents per successful
action. All of it sits inside the Happy
Box omni channel AI first support stack
chatbot co-pilot and autopilot working
as one. Check them out at
happyox.com/saster.
Hey everybody, Saster Annual will be
back May 2026, the world's largest SAS
and AI gathering for executives. Just
this last May, we hosted 10,000
attendees with 68 VP level and above
attendees. 36% CEOs and founders and 25%
were AI first professionals. It's the
very best of S tier attendees and
decision makers that come [music] to SAS
annual and AI summit each and every
year. But here's the reality, folks. The
longer you wait, the higher ticket
prices get. They're cheap now. They're
cheap. So just get [music] them early.
Lock in your spot today. Use my code
Jason 100 for exclusive savings. Get
your tickets at podcast.s [music]
sanganual.com or just use code Jason100
when you check out. See you there.
Saster annual and AISummit 2026. It will
rock.
>> Thanks so much for being here. My name
is Ryan Anderson. I am the co-founder
and CEO of a company called FileMine. We
are an AI legal company and I'm going to
talk to you about how we became AI. We
have 6,000 customers, 700 employees,
growing extremely fast. Uh we will be uh
kind of well above $200 million in ARR
this year, growing above 50%, close to
60%.
But we have successfully now made the
transition to an AI native company. And
how can I tell you that? Well, it's in
the numbers. It is very plain to see
that the numbers back up that we are now
doing far more revenue on a new
quarter-by-quarter basis in AI products
than in our SAS product. Now, that's not
to say that the SAS product is in any
way less successful and in fact it's
still growing. The SAS product itself is
growing at 3540% year-over-year. We are
just growing so much faster on the AI
side of the house. So the question for
all of us in this room that run SAS
companies that are leaders at SAS
companies is sort of how did we do this
and how should we all continue to go AI
native? It is a very tough transition
and I'll tell you the trick number one
and the hardest part is that nothing is
sacred. Let me tell you what I mean. You
all have teams that have built
incredible things. They are justifiably
so proud of what they have built. How
could they not be? You have products
that are working today that bring in a
lot of money and you are going to have
to have conversations with your leaders
about tearing down what they have built.
Literally large components of your
codebase, not all of it of course, but
meaningful components of your codebase
that work today that make you money will
have to be torn down.
Now the trick of course is that not
everything needs to be torn down. Only
the things that make sense. So deciding
what should be torn down and what should
not be torn down is a big deal. It
requires a good amount of judgment. And
we have come up with what we think is a
pretty simple 4x4 matrix to decide what
should and shouldn't be torn down. The
number one thing you have, the number
one advantage you have is that you have
all this data and a working system of
record. if you are a SAS company. So we
say the things on the y-axis that are
critical to your competitive advantage
and things that don't slow you down that
keep you fast and moving fast in the
development of AI those things those are
easy calls upper right quadrant don't
tear that down if anything preserve it
make it better fortify it this is an
area where you can succeed this will be
the cornerstone of your AI native
movement the other easy call the bottom
left now I say easy call because
logically it's Emotionally, it will be
just as hard. But the bottom left are
things that don't help you, that are not
important for your competitive moat and
slow you down. Why in the world would
you keep those things? But I promise
you, promise you when you talk to your
technical leaders who are building these
products, some of them will tell you,
"We absolutely have to keep them." But
they're slowing you down and you
shouldn't. And these are emotional
things. Of course, it's emotional. Think
about somebody who's worked 5 years on
building a microservices architecture
that does not serve your AI needs and
yet you will have to take it away. It
will have to go. So you're going to have
to tear those down. The the upper left,
bottom right, those are more challenging
calls. Those are more nuanced. You're
going to have to decide, hey, does this
thing that doesn't slow me down but
isn't really helpful for my competitive
mode, do I really want to keep that or
tear it down or not? Those are going to
be hard calls to make, but they're much
more nuanced and and um based in kind of
uh judgment that's situational. That's
fine. What's important though is that
you look at those logically and coldly
and not based on somebody else's
feelings. I often say that one one of
the challenges in working in any
company, but especially a tech company,
is our disposition to be agreeable.
Unfortunately, in this instance,
agreeableness is not going to help you.
You're gonna have to be disagreeable as
a CEO or as a technical leader making
these calls to go AI native. All right,
but your SAS application does have a ton
of value. We want you to move from
content to context. Right now, your SAS
app has a ton of content. You have built
an application that is very good at
bringing in lots of data from lots of
sources, cataloging it, storing it in
the right places, making it easy to pull
data out and be viewable by your
customers. That's awesome.
But in this world, the value shifts. We
no longer care so much about the content
itself. We care much more about the
context.
And what do I mean? Well, again, we have
tuned all of our systems
for kind of ingestion of data via a
keyboard. So there is a big shift at
play. We all know this is coming that
the world that we see today is not the
world we're going to see in 5 years.
Most data will come into applications
not via a keyboard over the next 5
years. So we're going to have to take
systems that are tuned to get data in
one way and get data out another way to
be totally different. now in a context
system and you have an advantage in
building a context system. Your
application should ingest data
agentically and take action with
context. So you have all this content.
It really can act as context for an AI
agent. You are so well positioned for
the future. And yet I hear it's very
kind of in vogue to say, you know, SAS
is dead. We don't need the database
anymore. We're not going to need all
this stuff. We just need AI agents doing
everything. But anybody who actually
thinks about it for a little bit knows
that that's not quite right. And I'm
going to use a very simple analogy. It
comes back to the 1990s hit film
Clueless.
Imagine for a moment I came to you and I
said, "Hey, good news. We have an AI
agent that can pick out your outfits in
the morning." If you're like me, I don't
like picking out my outfits. It takes
too much time. I would be like,
"Awesome. That's awesome. Done. I'll
sign up for the AI agent that picks out
my outfits." And in fact, Sher already
had an AI agent that picked out her
outfits. Um, but if you then said, "Oh,
by the way, now that you have this AI
agent, you don't get to have your closet
anymore. We're not going to show you
your closet. You can't see it. In fact,
it's just a bunch of unstructured data
and clothes and a mess, and you never
get to have it anymore." You'd be like,
"Hold on, wait, wait. I would actually
like to have my closet and the AI agent.
Can I have both?" Of course, of course.
That is the better world to live in. And
that is the world where we as SAS
leaders actually have a significant
advantage. Your SAS application is like
Sher's closet. The agent helps take
action based on the content inside the
closet. It's a simple analogy, but that
is actually the world that we're headed
to and it's where we are far more
advantaged than our AI only competitors.
But to do this, our architecture will
have to change. Fundamentally, this is
not a small change. This is a big deal.
I had an engineer say to me just a few
months ago with a ton of pride, mind
you, we have built an incredible SAS
application that makes tons of money,
grows fast, customers never leave it,
FBI has almost 96% gross revenue
retention, 124% net revenue retention.
He has every reason to be prideful of
the application that he's built. And he
said, and the great news is now we get
to sprinkle AI on top.
That is fundamentally incorrect. We all
know in this room that if you are going
to build an AI application today, you
can't simply say, "Hey, we've got all
these APIs. Open AAI has APIs. Done.
We'll connect them. We've got an an AI
application." That is not going to cut
it in 2026.
To be AI native, you actually have to
change the architecture of your system.
It has to flip. The old way, the way
that my first kind of one of my top
engineers said is, okay, you have an AI
layer that sits on top of, you know,
your your basic core services, your AWS,
your data, your codebase, um, the other
kind of traditional services, maybe, you
know, a calendar application, all the
typical things that a CRUD app will
have. You have to move from that to an
architecture where the AI data layer
sits right next to the AI application
layer. And why is that? Because the ML
engineers you hire are going to demand
and they are going to require that they
can tune and change the way data goes
into those AI applications all the time
on nearly a daily basis and they can't
be going to your old traditional tech
team and saying hey can you please
change how the API provides me this data
that's not going to work you are going
to lose you going to go too slow so we
introduce an AI data layer and this
layer owns how information is prepared
for AI. How you ingest, process
documents, emails, messages, and events.
For example, we sell legal software. A
legal case is just a graph of people,
events, claims, outcomes. It's the exact
same kind of material that you would use
to build an AI data layer. But the ML
team has to own that data layer. And
when they do, I can tell you from
personal experience, the AI applications
you can build when you format it like
this, dramatically better, dramatically
more reliable, higher context, more
complete, more accurate. Your customers
will be much happier. You will actually
be able to compete with the AI native
applications. So together, this makes up
the core AI applications layer for
things like co-pilot, search,
summarization, recommendations, and
reporting. Think how important this is
for a moment. reporting search. In a
world where you have AI, you want
reporting and search to be AI native.
You don't want to even think about
whether or not a user should
semantically search or should use
traditional search. Both, I think, are
pretty darn important. You're still
going to want traditional search. There
are reasons to do traditional search,
but you don't want your end user to have
to think about that choice. You want to
design with AI in mind from the very
beginning. All right. To build all this,
you're going to need to hire AI natives.
The problem is, they don't want to work
for you. They want to work for AI
companies. So, why in the world would AI
natives want to work for your old SAS
company? I've got one piece of very good
news.
[clears throat] Besides wanting to work
for cool AI companies, the good ones
actually want to work for companies
where they have more access to data. Let
me tell you a little bit, a little
story. In our world, there are a ton.
Legal tech is such a hot area for AI
today. There are so many competitors
that have said, "Hey, give us your
documents. We will run AI on top of
those documents and we will sell you AI
outputs." There are hundreds of these
companies.
The problem is that they think that that
provides an answer to the customer. But
we know at Filebind that to actually get
an answer to a legal question, you need
way more than the documents. Let me give
you a simple suggestion or a simple
explanation.
Let's say that you wanted to ask FAR
system what's going on on this case and
what should I do next? Now your
application might might be what should I
do? You know, tell me about this
opportunity for this customer and what
should we do next? There's a very common
question that you would use a chat
application, a co-pilot to ask and get
an answer. But to get good answer to
that question requires way more
information. It requires you to know
who's done what. Those are audit trails.
It requires you to know who is who, who
is doing the things in your application.
It requires deadlines. It requires a
calendar. For us, it requires conflict
checks and contact information. You have
to know so much to give a complete
answer. And in the world of legal tech,
and I believe almost for all of you in
this,
an incomplete answer is actually worse.
It's worse than an inaccurate answer
because the customer doesn't know what
they didn't see. And that is deadly. But
the good news is because you have such
rich data, you can sell this to the AI
natives you're recruiting and then you
can sell them on your distribution. And
here's what happened. This is
distribution from a real product that we
launched just recently. It went from
what five or 10 people using it a day to
hundreds of people using it every single
day in just a few months. This can
happen to follow of you and your AI team
will love using products that absolutely
rip because you have distribution and
data to make these products completely
different than your AI only competitors.
The problem is you are going to have to
acquire talent fast. I have a confession
to make. We had an ML team. It was
fledgling. Now we simply bought a
company. You might have to go buy a
company. And I realize that may not be
an option for all of you, but we bought
Parrot. Uh it's an AI native company.
And now we've merged the two teams. Our
our traditional data science team that
we hadn't before with uh the Parrot team
that is AI native today. AI natives want
to work next to each other. Sometimes
physically, but they want to work with
other AI native talent and build
something amazing together. We now have
a critical mass of AI talent at Filevine
that can move very fast. Now you have a
branding problem. You have a branding
problem in the employee talent markets
and you have a branding problem because
you have an a SAS application today. Um
a lot of our customers would say we love
you for what you do but you don't really
see AI sell AI, right? We had to like
convince them over and over again that
we actually do have great AI products
and that took a rebranding. So the
perception of who you are needs to
change. And it can sound so simple to
say, "Okay, we just updated the colors
in the logo." But we did more than that.
We planted a freaking flag. We are
different now than we used to be. The
old logo very much called out like a
military legal vibe. And we wanted to
say, "No, no, we are moving fast. We are
up and to the right. We are bolder than
we used to be." Let me tell you this
change, it meant a lot to our customers
and to the people looking at us, but it
meant even more internally. This change
in our mark has told the people who work
at Fileline every single day, the old
mark is from a traditional SAS era and
the new one is from the AI era and it
actually matters. It is highly symbolic
and you should have no problem telling
your team, we are moving and you need to
give them a symbolic thing to look at
for that change. But what gives? Why is
any of this important? None of it
actually matters, folks. If you don't
build great AI product, here is the good
news for all of you. If you are up
against a competitor who is an AI only
product and you have the system of
record, I promise you your customers do
not want to leave. They are far more
interested in staying right where they
are and having their data and their
documents and all the workflows that
they've built on your SAS application do
all the work they were doing before.
They want to stay with you. But your
product can't be 90% as good. It can't
be 95% as good. It has to be at least as
good. Obviously, we want to build it
better, but it has to be at least as
good. The good news is though, we do win
in a tie. Now, you have to obsess over
usage. If you to know if your product is
any good, are customers using it? At
Filevine, we are religious about this.
We do not let our teams roll out
applications beyond beta without audit
trail logging to know exactly who's
doing what with these applications.
These are real numbers from our AI
fields product. It's absolutely massive.
I think we've had 150 million actions
taken on our AI fields product in just a
few months. Um this is our docker view
product also growing extremely quickly.
We always are thinking in the language
of daily active users, weekly active
users, monthly active users. We think
about this all the time and our
blockbuster AI product. This is by far
our best one is an incredible product.
Chat with your case. It's a simple
co-pilot but it does so much and is
relied on by our customers for
everything. It is fun to see them, you
know, you'll see a customer use it like
five times, then the next day they'll
use it eight times, then the next day
they use it 20 times. And we now have a
customer using it, I think, like 2,000
times a day. This product, just this one
product, is growing in usage 10% week
over week. You can build these kinds of
products, but you're going to have to
have a new team and a new culture to
build them. All right, assuming you've
done all that and you all have a bunch
of data sitting in these SAS
applications. Again, we got really good
at ingesting data as SAS leaders. Your
data is your company advantage. But you
are going to have a bunch of only
companies come to you and say, "I can't
believe you have all this data and you
won't give it to me for free whenever I
want it. It's your customer's data. How
could you possibly be acting this way?"
Well, I've got a couple points that I'd
like to bring out. Number one, first of
all, it is entirely fair that if we
spent years building a product and
ingesting data and cataloging it and
categorizing it in a way that can be
easily ingestable by AI applications
that we want a relationship and we want
to have a discussion before we simply
allow access to the API. So we have
control over our APIs today. We have
moved from open API access to personal
access tokens. We know exactly who's
accessing our API. We know exactly what
they're doing. We know how they're using
the API. We know how often they're using
the API. They can't get at it without
our express permission. We actually
evaluate every single request. You might
imagine these these AI competitors, they
really like this. Actually, they hate
it. They're really upset about it. Um,
but what we have found is that our
customers actually totally get it. They
totally understand our position on this.
And look, we have never said one time to
any competitor, you can't access our
data. But we have always said, let's
have a conversation about that. Let's
let's see what makes sense for us and
for the customers and for you. Now, one
little tip, if you're ever negotiating
with these folks, they will demand
access to your data like it's their
freaking moral right. But the minute you
say, "Okay, sure. Let's have a
conversation about that." But of course,
it goes both ways, correct? we can take
the AI outputs that you guys get from
our data and we'll get them right back
into our system. Correct? Isn't that how
it'll work? All of a sudden, the shoe
doesn't feel so good when it's on the
other foot. Um, just a little tip when
you're negotiating with these folks. So,
it's fine to integrate, but review the
requests, but most importantly, the AI
traffic is going to reveal something to
you. It will review reveal promising
areas for new development. You will all
of a sudden see very early on which
products are gaining traction. And you
should 100% copy those products. You
should copy those products and build
them right into your system. You have
the right to do this. Do not let these
folks win this battle. You have worked
too hard and built an application that
is worth too much to your customer base.
You deserve to win this, but it's going
to be really hard. All right. Price to
dominate. Uh the good news is you have
built a SAS application that likely has
very high gross margins.
Congratulations. We were all taught that
gross margins were a really important
part of building a SAS application.
Your AI only competitors, they struggle
with margins badly. They have a really
hard time with margins because they have
all their LLM costs are super high. So,
you get to do something kind of savage.
You get to sell the AI products at a
lower price point than your competitors
can sell them at. Why can you do this?
Because you can keep a blended gross
margin at a much higher rate than they
can keep it at. So yes, while your
investors might say, "Oh my gosh, like
why are we selling the products cheaper
than our AI only competitors are selling
them?" Your answer is because we're
gaining market share. And by the way,
our blended gross is still higher than
our competitors blended gross. And
here's the good news. You are way better
situated to win this battle than your
competitors are. Oh, here here's the
chart. This is how this works. Uh, you
can see the the blue line is kind of
what happens to the blended gross as you
drive down the blended gross on the AI
gross margin versus your SAS gross
margin for Filevine goes from 80% and
sure I mean maybe it goes to 60, right?
That would be an extreme case, but
that's way better than the AI competitor
whose gross margin is driven all the way
down to 10%. And you get to be that kind
of player and you should because I
promise you these AI competitors, they
will seed you no ground. They will be
just as vicious competing with you as
you should be with them. Lastly, you
want to build hard things. I have a
couple different components of this.
First of all, you're ready for a major
change. You should rebrand and think
about your system differently. We have
created a new category. We call it the
legal operating intelligence system. I
think you should think in category
creation. It is something entirely new.
You have a SAS product, you have AI
companies. Really, if you're going to
blend the two, it's an operating
intelligence system. For us, it's a
legal operating intelligence system. For
you all, you're probably going to call
it something different, but you are
creating a different category, a blended
category of software. Now what's cool
about Lois is we can rethink the
interface from the ground up from an AI
first mentality. AI just like the cloud
is now assumed today. AI is just going
to be assumed. It will fade into the
background. We will talk less about AI.
We will simply talk about technology. At
the end of the day, that's all we have
ever been is a technology company
solving problems for customers. And that
means that the way we price has to
change. File line is moving from a
subscription user based pricing to
usagebased pricing on a for us it's kind
of a hybrid model. We we charge on a on
what we call a matter or a project. But
this allows us to kind of charge each
customer for how much they're actually
using the product. We have found this is
working really well. We already do it um
in a major way at Filevine and that has
worked incredibly well. We get far more
revenue from our usage based pricing
customers than we do from our
traditional subscriptionbased customers.
But again, the product isn't just an AI
plus a SAS product. At least not for us.
We have made a very important decision.
We no longer sell to customers who won't
buy the AI products.
buy them. Why is that? Because we have
to assume that AI is implicit in
everything we build. We don't want to be
making a distinction. Oh geez, like how
do we sell this to the nonAI customers?
That's crazy. There should be no nonAI
customers. What are your customers doing
if they're not buying AI? So for us, we
have to assume in the way we build the
product that AI will be part of the
build. And if we're going to assume
that, we have to assume we're selling
one product. You build one tool and you
sell to a customer who's going to come
with you on this journey. Might we lose
some customers? Maybe. Maybe. Show me
the lawyer that doesn't want to use AI
and I will show you the lawyer that's
about to get uh his butt kicked cuz like
I don't know where you go if you're not
going to use AI and you're a lawyer in
2025.
But we are willing to do that because we
cannot build in any other way. And by
the way, it's way better messaging for
your team. How do you tell all the
technicians that are working on the SAS
product, okay, here's what we're going
to do. We're going to work on the old
stuff and we're going to let the new
team, the new AI team, the ML team, the
hot AI natives, they get to go work on
all the cool kid AI stuff. No way. That
doesn't work. We want one company and
one product where we're building on the
coolest stuff together because at the
end of the day, it has always just been
about a customer with a problem. That's
what animates us. That's what animates
me. That's what makes me want to get up
and go to work every single day. Can you
solve my problem? That's what our
customers want to know. And we can solve
it with technology. So hopefully this
has been helpful. I'll quickly review
what we talked about. Nothing is sacred.
You're going to have to have some really
ruthless conversations with your team.
This is very hard. Be prepared. You will
see some human emotion and reaction when
you tell your coders something that you
built that's working is going to have to
go away. You're going to shift from
content to context systems. You're going
to have to change your architecture.
This is a real technical change. It's
not just this is not window dressing.
This is more than cultural. You will
actually have to change how your product
works. Hire AI natives. Consider maybe
just acquiring a company. Rebrand with
intent. Obsess over us. You should never
release an AI product, any product, if
you don't know how it's being used.
Leverage your data. Price to dominate.
Be savage on this. And build hard things
that customers want. Pay less attention
to the technology. It's all in the end
solutions for customers. Thanks
everybody.
>> Hey Sasser, imagine having agents for
every support t. One that triages
tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots churn risk.
That'd be pretty mainly, right? Happy
Fox just made it real with autopilot.
These pre-built AI agents deploy in
about 60 seconds and run for as low as 2
cents per successful action. [music]
All of it sits inside the Happy Fox omni
channel AI first support stack. Chatbot,
Copilot, and Autopilot working as one.
Check them out at happyox.com/aster.